# amalgamation

There are countless models for predicting basketball games and rating the teams that play in those games. Many focus on rating teams as a sum of their parts, or rather a sum of their statistics. Others look at individual players and try to generalize their performances to an entire season. Suprisingly few of the papers I read brought both ends of the spectrum together. So, I became curious as to what could be done when these two types of models were combined.
I started by reading papers in journals and in Medium articles to search for the models that I believed would be the best candidates to combine together. After a few days of reading and taking notes I decided on how I would combine the models I had been studying.
I am going to use artificial neural networks to model the probability a team has of winning at a certain point in the game. This model will use a traditional elo rating, time remaining, who has the ball, and the score differential to make its predictions.
Following this I will take the cumulative win probabilities from each game, and take a per game average. This will serve as a rating system that I believe will be better than traditional elo because the score difference at the end of the game does not tell the entire story. If a team is up 20 the entire second half, but gives away a few garbage time buckets and only wins by 10, elo does not capture the fact that they won that game quite easily.
Finally, I will use the ratings for each team along with the Raptor ratings created by 538 to predict the outcomes of games.
